[Term Entry] Java ArrayList .listiterator() #4341 (#4776)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/array-list/terms/listiterator/listiterator.md

```java
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.ListIterator;

public class ArrayListListIteratorExample {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

    // Creating an ArrayList
    ArrayList<String> arrayList = new ArrayList<>();
    arrayList.add("Nice");
    arrayList.add("to");
    arrayList.add("meet");
    arrayList.add("you");

    // Creating a ListIterator from ArrayList
    ListIterator<String> it = arrayList.listiterator();

    // Iterating through the elements and printing them
    while (it.hasNext) {
        System.out.println(it.next());
    }
  }
}
```

The output of the mentioned code is as follows:

```shell
Nice
to
meet
you
```

### Example 2

In this example, we create a `ListIterator` at a specified index.

```java
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.ListIterator;

public class ArrayListListIteratorExample {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

    // Creating an ArrayList
    ArrayList<String> arrayList = new ArrayList<>();
    arrayList.add("Nice");
    arrayList.add("to");
    arrayList.add("meet");
    arrayList.add("you");

    // Creating a ListIterator from ArrayList at index 2

>     ListIterator<String> it = arrayList.listiterator(2);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ListIterator<String> it = arrayList.listIterator(2);
```

    // Iterating through the remaining elements and printing them

>     while (it.hasNext) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    while (it.hasNext()) {
```

        System.out.println(it.next());
    }
  }
}
```

The output of the mentioned code is as follows:

```shell
meet
you
```

### Example 3

In this example, we create a `ListIterator` at a specified index. Note that if the index is larger than the size of the arraylist, the method will return an `IndexOutOfBounds` exception.

```java
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.ListIterator;

public class ArrayListListIteratorExample {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

    // Creating an ArrayList
    ArrayList<String> arrayList = new ArrayList<>();
    arrayList.add("Nice");
    arrayList.add("to");
    arrayList.add("meet");
    arrayList.add("you");

>     System.out.println("Arraylist size:" + arraylist.size());

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    System.out.println("ArrayList size: " + arrayList.size());
```

    try {
        // Attempting to create a ListIterator at index 5

>         ListIterator<String> it = arrayList.listiterator(5);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ListIterator<String> it = arrayList.listIterator(5);
```

    } catch (IndexOutOfBoundsException e){
        System.out.println("Exception: " + e);
    }
  }
}
```

The output of the mentioned code is as follows:

```shell

> Arraylist size: 4
> Exception thrown : java.lang.IndexOutOfBoundsException: Index: 5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ArrayList size: 4
Exception: java.lang.IndexOutOfBoundsException: Index: 5, Size: 4
```

---
Title: '.listIterator()'

> Description: 'Returns a ListIterator over the elements in ArrayList.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Iterates over the elements in an ArrayList in both directions.'
```
